You guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture I'm going to show you how to use layers to save
you a lot of time keep yourself organized.
And I'm sure you kind of some scenarios where you actually would find this useful.
So if you spaced out before on a talk about layers and layers work are just imagine putting paper on
top of paper.
So what that means is like right now I only have one layer.
You can tell it's selected called the welcome's green and green.
And so basically everything that's on the canvas exists on one layer they're all equal in terms of the
way that the computer or their application sees it.
Now if I add a new layer then all of a sudden I'm opening up another layer where I can put icons on
top of that and they'll not only overlap the other ones but then I can control them as groups.
So why would I want to do this.
Let's say I'm making a web site and every single page except for a couple have this upper little header
bar right here.
And I honestly don't want to spend tons and tons of time recreating it.
And let's imagine that I put a lot more time and effort into it.
Let's say I put a you know a search bar up here and I'll put a search for it here.
And so I don't really want to spend a lot of time over redoing everything from wireframe to wireframe
what I could just do in this case and it's a little wonky how they do this.
But you know it's like every wire framing tool they have these strange work arounds.
So what I would do is if for some reason I wanted to group all of these together now in bosonic you
just group them and they don't use layers Lares what I would do is pretty simple I say new layer.
Now they're going to call a global layer and what they mean by global is global in a programming sense
means that it applies to every single thing.
It's the opposite of local So if you had something that was only on this page you'd call it local.
They call it global because it's supposedly going to be everywhere.
Does it really matter.
You can rename it whatever you want.
And I suggest that you do that you like change it to Hetter.
Now as you can tell this is green meaning I'm selecting the header.
That's why this is all blurred out because you can see I can't touch anything because nothing's on this
layer.
Now if I wanted to be able to edit things I have to go back to the original layer the welcome screen
which is separated out because it's the original layer.
It's kind of like the base.
Then I can select everything the way that I would move things from this to that is pretty simple so
I would say here I'd select the entire header.
I would get cut go to the head or select it and paste that is quite literally it saves you enormous
amount of time because if for instance I was going to now clone a new page.
All right so let's clone our page like we did before.
Reclose.
OK now let's pretend like this page is something that wouldn't have a header let's say payment accepted.
Let's say it was a page where we had accepted payment.
So what I would say is payment accepted.
And then what I would want to do is I want to modify the local elements and I do want to get rid of
the header.
So there you go now it's gone and enough to select the whole thing and delete it and then later as I'm
making it I can just add them.
This becomes really helpful as I create lots and lots of chokes and snippets because I can just pull
them in and pull them out as I need them.
So say if you have a recurring element that throughout your page you have a form that's always on the
right hand side but it's only there sometimes just depending on the page depending on what the page
guidelines call for.
So we'll make this really simple call it you know input we'll call it just so it helps you understand
what we're doing.
First name
same phone number.
OK.
So no we don't a space it out.
So I'm slightly OCD about these things.
OK.
So let's say we have this form over here.
And then we give it let's say like go back background placemat.
So remember how we put this behind it.
We go and sit in the back we go OK.
So let's say that like this forum occasionally would pop up on the sides of pages or at the bottom or
anything.
I mean it's really popular now to have these just pop up in the middle of your page to ask for your
e-mail address if you've seen those.
What I could do is I could create a new letter or layers or.
And we'll call this one.
Side form
OK.
And then what I would do you remember go back to this page select all cut and paste.
So now I automatically have all these things set up that I can use if I didn't one of the side forms
pop and pop it off.
And so any page I'm on.
I'll have this side layer makes it really easy to just add things mess with things.
Keep in mind though if I do say put this on the local lair on the page and I go to a side form and then
I start messing with this layer because it's global it's going to change it and all the other pages.
So if you want to take this and modify it you have to do is remove it from this side.
So what I would do personally I would copy it so I will copy it we'll drop with the side forms.
It's not displaying go back to the original layer and paste it back in.
There you go.
OK.
So you'll notice like it doesn't you can't see you want to add it on.
But now if I change something and let's say instead of this sort of phone number it's e-mail.
Here we go.
What would happen see how now it's going to.
Right.
Oh I see.
So if I went to side form right and so that's how I would change it.
You actually cannot see this when I toggle it.
Nothing happens because this layer is actually underneath the layer that I just made before.
But if for instance I were to delete what I just wrote it actually would go back.
Now it's displaying this one because it's checked you go.
OK.
So that is how you use layers.
Incredibly helpful but one of those things it just doesn't really make that much sense at the very beginning.
That's really all you need to know about them.
They're just used to create little miniature templates within your wireframe so you can apply them through
each individual page.
Saves you a ton of time surprisingly especially if you're doing or wireframe correctly and if you're
taking my course you'll be doing them correctly right.
So keep in mind it's just a tool.
Helpful.
There's a lot more things you can do with it and I can show you to do.
But again these are things that you really shouldn't concern yourself with.
You can get 80 percent of the functionality out of the system with Again 20 percent of the effort.
So it looks like we're going to talk about how you add annotations.
So in the next lecture.